Apples
Granny Smith, Royal Gala, Golden Delicious and Pink Lady are just a few of the thousands of kinds of apple that are grown around the world. Dried apple rings make a healthy snack – remove the core, thinly slice the apple and bake the rings in the oven at a low heat for about an hour.

Apricots
Apricots can be eaten fresh or dried – both are packed with vitamins. Fresh apricots have a soft and slightly furry skin. They are high in beta-carotene, which keeps our eyes and skin healthy.

Aubergines
Most aubergines are teardrop-shaped and have glossy purple skin. On the inside, they are spongy and creamy-white. Aubergines grow on bushes and really are fruit – although you wouldn’t want to eat them raw! Perhaps cooked in a Thai curry? Australians and Americans call it eggplant because some types look a bit like large eggs.

Avocados
Sometimes called an avocado pear, this fruit is often mistakenly described as a vegetable because we eat it in salads. Avocados are at their best when they are ripe. They’re really easy to prepare – simply cut one in half, remove the stone and eat with a little salad dressing or chopped into a salad. Avocados are a good source of essential fats (yes, the good ones) and are one of the few fruits that contain fat.

Bananas
A great snack in a handy yellow skin! Bananas are a good source of energy and contain lots of vitamins and minerals, especially potassium, which is important for the health of cells, nerves and muscles, and helps to lower blood pressure. Bananas grow in hanging clusters, sometimes called hands, in tropical regions. You can eat them raw, baked, dried or in a smoothie. Or try mashed banana on wholegrain toast – it’s delicious!

Butternut squash
Butternut squash is a large and pear-shaped fruit with a golden-brown to yellow skin. Because it contains seeds, it is actually a fruit rather than a vegetable. Once peeled and cooked, the flesh is soft and sweet. It can be roasted, pureed, mashed or used in soups or casseroles. It’s a good source of beta-carotene, which is turned into vitamin A in the body. Beta-carotene gives the flesh its bright orange colour. Bulk up a spaghetti bolognese by adding some butternut squash.

Cherries
Cherries grow from stalks in pairs and a tree can produce fruit for as long as 100 years! Sweet varieties such as the Bing cherry are nicest on their own or in a fruit salad. Sour cherries like Morello are tastier cooked.